# This publication is intellectual property of Canonical Ltd. Its contents
# can be duplicated, either in part or in whole, provided that a copyright
# label is visibly located on each copy.
#
# All information found in this book has been compiled with utmost
# attention to detail. However, this does not guarantee complete accuracy.
# Neither Canonical Ltd, the authors, nor the translators shall be held
# liable for possible errors or the consequences thereof.
#
# Many of the software and hardware descriptions cited in this book
# are registered trademarks. All trade names are subject to copyright
# restrictions and may be registered trade marks. Canonical Ltd
# essentially adheres to the manufacturer's spelling.
#
# Names of products and trademarks appearing in this book (with or without
# specific notation) are likewise subject to trademark and trade protection
# laws and may thus fall under copyright restrictions.
#


=pod

=head1 NAME

aa-load - load precompiled AppArmor policy from cache location(s)

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<aa-load> [options] (cache file|cache dir|cache base dir)+

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<aa-load> loads precompiled AppArmor policy from the specified locations.

=head1 OPTIONS

B<aa-load> accepts the following arguments:

=over 4

=item -f, --force

Force B<aa-load> to load a policy even if its abi does not match the kernel abi.

=item -d, --debug

Display debug messages.

=item -v, --verbose

Display progress and error messages.

=item -n, --dry-run

Do not actually load the specified policy/policies into the kernel.

=item -h, --help

Display a brief usage guide.

=back

=head1 EXIT STATUS

Upon exiting, B<aa-load> returns 0 upon success and 1 upon an error loading
the precompiled policy.

=head1 BUGS

If you find any bugs, please report them at
L<https://gitlab.com/apparmor/apparmor/-/issues>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

apparmor(7), apparmor.d(5), apparmor_parser(8), and L<https://wiki.apparmor.net>.

=cut
